
Customer Name
Mr. SAYANTAN ROY CHOWDHURY
CIF Number
3194120223
Reference Number
010519017500493
Normal = Normal + 1
TP -  Normal+1

Your Access Code is 4397.

Your Western User ID is sroycho4

Your Western email is sroycho4@uwo.ca

Finally, there is an unsurpassed enjoyment in playing when the music overtakes the thinking. That’s when you are really playing music.

Like lost children we live our unfinished adventures

Certainly the best times were when I was alone with mathematics, free of ambition and pretense, and indifferent to the world.

We have to do what we can.

It is while doing mathematical research that one truly comes to see the beauty of mathematics. It faces you in those moments when the underlying simplicity of a question appears and its meaningless complications can be forgotten. In those moments a piece of a colossal logical structure is illuminated, and some of the meaning hidden in the nature of things is finally revealed. 

Discovery is a child’s privilege. I mean the small child, the child who is not afraid to be wrong, to look silly, to not be serious, and to act differently from everyone else. He is also not afraid that the things he is interested in are in bad taste or turn out to be different from his expectations, from what they should be, or rather he is not afraid of what they actually are. He ignores the silent and flawless consensus that is part of the air we breathe – the consensus of all the people who are, or are reputed to be, reasonable.

It's to that being inside of you who knows how to be alone, it is to this infant that I wish to speak, and no-one else. I'm well aware that this infant has been considerably estranged. It's been through some hard times, and more than once over a long period. It's been dropped off Lord knows where, and it can be very difficult to reach. One swears that it died ages ago, or that it never existed - and yet I am certain it's always there, and very much alive.

Since then I’ve had the chance, in the world of mathematics that bid me welcome, to meet quite a number of people, both among my “elders” and among young people in my general age group, who were much more brilliant, much more “gifted” than I was. I admired the facility with which they picked up, as if at play, new ideas, juggling them as if familiar with them from the cradle — while for myself I felt clumsy, even oafish, wandering painfully up an arduous track, like a dumb ox faced with an amorphous mountain of things that I had to learn (so I was assured), things I felt incapable of understanding the essentials or following through to the end. Indeed, there was little about me that identified the kind of bright student who wins at prestigious competitions or assimilates, almost by sleight of hand, the most forbidding subjects. In fact, most of these comrades who I gauged to be more brilliant than I have gone on to become distinguished mathematicians. Still, from the perspective of 30 or 35 years, I can state that their imprint upon the mathematics of our time has not been very profound. They’ve all done things, often beautiful things, in a context that was already set out before them, which they had no inclination to disturb. Without being aware of it, they’ve remained prisoners of those invisible and despotic circles which delimit the universe of a certain milieu in a given era. To have broken these bounds they would have had to rediscover in themselves that capability which was their birth-right, as it was mine: the capacity to be alone.



It is in this gesture of "going beyond," to be something in oneself rather than the pawn of a consensus, the refusal to stay within a rigid circle that others have drawn around one-it is in this solitary act that one finds true creativity. All others things follow as a matter of course.


As one reads mathematics, one needs to have an active mind, asking questions, forming mental connections between the current topic and other ideas from other contexts, so as to develop a sense of the structure, not just familiarity with a particular tour through the structure.

In our acquisition of knowledge of the Universe (whether mathematical or otherwise) that which renovates the quest is nothing more nor less than complete innocence. It is in this state of complete innocence that we receive everything from the moment of our birth. Although so often the object of our contempt and of our private fears, it is always in us. It alone can unite humility with boldness so as to allow us to penetrate to the heart of things, or allow things to enter us and taken possession of us.

This unique power is in no way a privilege given to “exceptional talents” – persons of incredible brain power (for example), who are better able to manipulate, with dexterity and ease, an enormous mass of data, ideas and specialized skills. Such gifts are undeniably valuable, and certainly worthy of envy from those who (like myself) were not so “endowed at birth, far beyond the ordinary”.

Yet it is not these gifts, nor the most determined ambition combined with irresistible will-power, that enables one to surmount the “invisible yet formidable boundaries” that encircle our universe. Only innocence can surmount them, which mere knowledge doesn’t even take into account, in those moments when we find ourselves able to listen to things, totally and intensely absorbed in child’s play.


It's not mathematics that you need to contribute to. It's deeper than that: how might you contribute to humanity, and even deeper, to the well-being of the world, by pursuing mathematics? Such a question is not possible to answer in a purely intellectual way, because the effects of our actions go far beyond our understanding. We are deeply social and deeply instinctual animals, so much that our well-being depends on many things we do that are hard to explain in an intellectual way. That is why you do well to follow your heart and your passion. Bare reason is likely to lead you astray. None of us are smart and wise enough to figure it out intellectually.

The product of mathematics is clarity and understanding. Not theorems, by themselves. Is there, for example any real reason that even such famous results as Fermat's Last Theorem, or the Poincaré conjecture, really matter? Their real importance is not in their specific statements, but their role in challenging our understanding, presenting challenges that led to mathematical developments that increased our understanding.

The world does not suffer from an oversupply of clarity and understanding (to put it mildly). How and whether specific mathematics might lead to improving the world (whatever that means) is usually impossible to tease out, but mathematics collectively is extremely important.

I think of mathematics as having a large component of psychology, because of its strong dependence on human minds. Dehumanized mathematics would be more like computer code, which is very different. Mathematical ideas, even simple ideas, are often hard to transplant from mind to mind. There are many ideas in mathematics that may be hard to get, but are easy once you get them. Because of this, mathematical understanding does not expand in a monotone direction. Our understanding frequently deteriorates as well. There are several obvious mechanisms of decay. The experts in a subject retire and die, or simply move on to other subjects and forget. Mathematics is commonly explained and recorded in symbolic and concrete forms that are easy to communicate, rather than in conceptual forms that are easy to understand once communicated. Translation in the direction conceptual -> concrete and symbolic is much easier than translation in the reverse direction, and symbolic forms often replaces the conceptual forms of understanding. And mathematical conventions and taken-for-granted knowledge change, so older texts may become hard to understand.

In short, mathematics only exists in a living community of mathematicians that spreads understanding and breaths life into ideas both old and new. The real satisfaction from mathematics is in learning from others and sharing with others. All of us have clear understanding of a few things and murky concepts of many more. There is no way to run out of ideas in need of clarification. The question of who is the first person to ever set foot on some square meter of land is really secondary. Revolutionary change does matter, but revolutions are few, and they are not self-sustaining --- they depend very heavily on the community of mathematicians.





What brings success in this case is the acute perception of the presence
of something strong, very real and at the same time very delicate. Perhaps
one can call it "beauty", in its thousand-fold aspects. That someone is
ambitious doesn't mean that one cannot also feel the presence of beauty
in them; but it is not the attribute of ambition which evokes this
feeling....
The first man to discover and master fire was just like you and me. He
was neither a hero nor a demi-god. Once again like you and me he had
experienced the sting of anguish, and applied the poultice of vanity to
anaesthetize that sting. But, at the moment at which he first "knew" fire
he had neither fear nor vanity. That is the truth at the heart of all heroic
myth. The myth itself becomes insipid, nothing but a drug, when it is used
to conceal the true nature of things.






Nothing is more unreadable to me than books (and papers) on mathematics. Reading a book on
mathematics with hundreds of pages cover to cover is an arduous task. When you open such a book, you
rst encounter some denitions and axioms, followed by theorems and proofs. Since mathematics becomes
plain and easy once the insight is there, you make an eort to get to it just by reading the theorems -
and try to produce the proofs on your own. Most likely, your thinking doesn't get you very far, so you
have no choice but to read the proof in your book, but you can't make sense of it by looking at it once
or twice. That is why you copy the proof to your notebook. But this time, the parts of the proof you
dislike leap out. You ask yourself if there could be another proof, and ideally nd one immediately, but if
you don't, it takes quite some time until you let go. After you have spent an entire month getting nally
through one chapter this way, you have forgotten the beginning, which you now have to revise. This time,
the arrangement of the material in the chapter starts to bother you, and makes you think something like
Wouldn't it be better to prove theorem 7 before theorem 3, and you rewrite the entire chapter. Now
you feel condent that you have nally understood chapter 1, but at the same time troubled, since this
all cost you so much time. Time alone can make it next to impossible to get through hundreds of pages
in a book to the last chapter. If anybody knows a faster method of reading mathematical texts, I would
like them to teach me.
Somebody might say that perhaps it is better to read straight to the end without thinking about
anything non-essential. This is certainly true and I can read books from elds of mathematics other than
my own faster and more smoothly (although I rarely read mathematical texts unrelated to my eld). I
may have read them, but it is acutely dubious whether there is any insight. At what stage can one say
that one has read and understood a written piece of mathematics? Is having veried the proof step by step
and having agreed that there is no error enough? If I read some book on mathematics from an unfamiliar
eld, I notice that the theorems that I don't understand puzzle me even after having veried their proofs.
The proof may be correct, but the overall picture is fuzzy and foggy. When I understand a theorem from
my own eld on the other hand, I comprehend it perfectly even after forgetting the proof, as perfectly
as the fact that 2 + 2 = 4: The understanding behind 2 + 2 = 4 comes from an instinctive grasp of the
mathematical truth behind 2 + 2 = 4, and not from a proof. In a similar vein, understanding any theorem
seems to mean having a sense of the underlying mathematical truth that it provides. I think that following
a proof step by step serves more as one good method for absorbing a theorem intuitively than for verifying
that the arguments in the proof are correct. (The fact that the proof of a famous theorem is correct should
be so clear that it doesn't have to be checked by everybody.) This is why in order to understand a theorem
well, reading the proof just once won't suce, but it is more benecial to read it again and again, copy it
to your notebook, and try to apply it to various problems. Writing the proof out is not something you do
for memorizing it, but for taking your time to look in detail at what builds up to the mathematical idea
behind the theorem. Once you have gained a complete understanding of the theorem in this way, there is
no objection at all to forgetting the entire proof (except if you haven't graduated from university, in which
case you better have it memorized for the exam). If you happen to need the forgotten proof later and
review it, it may then even seem like an unnatural tag on the theorem which itself is as clear as 2 + 2 = 4.
Mathematics is a highly technical subject. Acquiring anything that people call technical needs
extensive and repetitious practice. For example, anybody who wants to become a pianist has no choice
but to practice every day for hours from childhood on. Mathematics also has a similar aspect to this and
I think you need to spend many hours every day doing repetitious exercises in order to master it. This
is how your intuitive grasp for mathematical truth develops. Reading books on mathematics from a eld
unrelated to your own and not understanding theorems even after having veried the proofs is a sign that
your intuition for that area isn't yet mature.



The universe is full of magical things, patiently waiting for our wits to grow sharper


It was one of those evenings when men feel that truth, goodness and beauty are one. In the morning, when they commit their discovery to paper, when others read it written there, it looks wholly ridiculous.

Most of one's life is one prolonged effort to prevent oneself thinking.

A person who has not done one half his day's work by ten o clock, runs a chance of leaving the other half undone.

Science can not be learned: it is understandable. She is not a dead letter
and books do not assure its durability: it is a living thought. For
to be interested in it and then to control it, our mind must, cleverly guided,
to rediscover, just as our body had to relive, in the maternal womb,
the evolution that created our species; not all his details, but his schema.
So there is only one effective way to have our children acquire them.
scientific principles that are stable, and the technical processes that evolve
quickly: it gives our children the spirit of research.




time is short, my strength is limited, the office is a horror, the apartment is noisy, and if a pleasant, straightforward life is not possible then one must try to wriggle through by subtle maneuvers.




To be creative means to be in love with life. You can be creative only if you love life enough that you want to enhance its beauty, you want to bring a little more music to it, a little more poetry to it, a little more dance to it.” 



Turns out Being understood is an underrated pleasure


There's no escape. I am god's lonely man.


God damn it, an entire generation pumping gas,waiting tables,slaves with white collar. Advertising has us chasing cars and clothes, working jobs we hate so we can buy shit we don't need . We are the middle children of history man . No purpose or place .We have no Great War. No Great Depression. Our Great War is a spiritual war.. Our Great Depression is our lives. We've all been raised on television to believe one day we'll all be millionares , and movie gods, and rock stars,but we won't. We are slowly learning that fact . And we're very, very pissed off.

Only after losing everything are we free to do anything


"Mathematics is the study of mathematical objects.

Mathematical objects are objects rooted in a scheme of concrete manipulations (on drawings, symbols...) but view through the idealization that these manipulations can be repeated indefinitely (like a drawing a line, or adding 1 to a number).

In this way, mathematical objects are the ideal closure of their schemes of manipulations. Not purely ideal, not purely empirical.

The way I see it, mathematics is about figuring out relations between mathematical objects (theorems) and finding out which manipulations on some objects of study (leading to formal definitions of these objects) are effective to construct (demonstration) their expected relations.

In my view, Mathematics has seldom to do with logic or truth, which I think is a degenerate point of view.

Mathematical is about objects, not statements. It is about constructions, not truth. The objectivity of mathematics--confused with some absoluity of mathematical truth--lies in the possibility to reiterate mathematical constructions.
"
 

 



To do:
Floer theory
Atiyah bott + donaldson
h-principle , shafarevich
MIT's course on analysis is very nice





    Can you find alternate proofs?
    If you know two proofs of the lemma, do you know to what extent the proofs are equivalent?  Do they generalise in different ways?  What themes do the proofs have in common?  What are the other relative strengths and weaknesses of the two proofs?
    Do you know why each of the hypotheses are necessary?
    What kind of generalizations are known/conjectured/heuristic?
    Are there weaker and simpler versions which can suffice for some applications?
    What are some model examples demonstrating that lemma in action?
    When is it a good idea to use the lemma, and when isn’t it?
    What kind of problems can it solve, and what kind of problems are beyond its ability to assist with?
    Are there analogues of that lemma in other areas of mathematics?
    Does the lemma fit into a wider paradigm or program?
    
    
    
    
    Looking at the easiest problems of interest that you can’t quite completely handle with your existing tools, for instance by taking an unsolved problem and making various assumptions to “turn off” all but one of the difficulties;
    Taking a known result and reproving it by “tying one hand behind your back”, by forbidding yourself to use a method which is effective for that result, but does not extend well to more difficult problems; or
    Taking a known result and generalising it to a situation in which most of the steps in the standard proof of the existing result look like they will extend, but which have just one or two parts which look tricky and will require some modest new idea, trick or insight.

    
    
    If the lemma were proven, how would it be used?
    What features of the lemma are most important for you?
    Would a weaker lemma suffice?
    Is there a simpler formulation of the lemma?
    Is it worth trying to omit a hypothesis of the lemma, if that hypothesis seems hard to obtain in practice?

    
     Lagrange's explanation of the quadratic formula (due to Diophantus?), Euler's explanation of "Cardano's" cubic formula, Auslander's explanation of Nakayama's lemma, Riemann and Roch's exposition of their theorem, Euclid's discussion of the concept of gcd of two integers, Kempf's exposition of Mumford's proof of the Riemann singularities theorem, etc,....
     
     
     Millions long for immortality who don’t know what to do with themselves on a rainy Sunday afternoon.
     
     
     “By three methods we may learn wisdom: First, by reflection, which is noblest; Second, by imitation, which is easiest; and third by experience, which is the bitterest.”
     
     
     Most days I dont even like getting up from my bed.
     
     
     I need to be smart enough to realize that I can change the world and there is nothing that can stop me. Whether there is a prize at the end or not. I will leave my mark on this planet and on mankind. I will change millions of lives for the better. I will not accept defeat. I will tirelessly chase my passion. I will have a thirst for knowledge that cannot be quenched. I will use the resources which I have.
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     



     
     
What is this life if, full of care,
We have no time to stand and stare.

No time to stand beneath the boughs
And stare as long as sheep or cows.

No time to see, when woods we pass,
Where squirrels hide their nuts in grass.

No time to see, in broad daylight,
Streams full of stars, like skies at night.

No time to turn at Beauty's glance,
And watch her feet, how they can dance.

No time to wait till her mouth can
Enrich that smile her eyes began.

A poor life this if, full of care,
We have no time to stand and stare.     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     

1)try reading a hard non-verbose book by an active researcher(hard part) - read verbose books on the side when you get acquainted with the "informations"
2)Start writing about it
3)Try going back to it as you find time





Griffiths and harris
hartshorne
h-cobordism
morse theory
do carmo
sharpe
knots and links
gompf
audin-damian
jhol
yong oh
atiyah mcdonald
dusa mcduff
donaldson 4 manifolds
primer on mapping class groups
new languages(French + German + Russian)
newstead+mumford

taxi driver
ghost writer
arrival
a serious man
there will be blood
coen brothers
seven
the truman show
darjeeling unlimited
in the mood for love
The Exterminating Angel
Across the Universe
grand budapest hotel
mr nobody
midnight in paris
purple rose of cairo
whisper of the heart
after life
kingdom




This is the tentative list of places I am applying to. Do you have anything to add to or remove from this list ?
FSMP,Paris(for the M2 Program) january 22 - 24 https://www.sciencesmaths-paris.fr/en/first-call-for-pgsm-master-893.htm  3
LMU http://www.en.uni-muenchen.de/students/degree/application_guides/application-guide_doctorate/index.html
University of Bonn 30th April https://www.bigs-math.uni-bonn.de/application/online-application/ CHECK IN MID FEBRUARY 3
ETH Zurich 15th March 3 https://www.zgsm.ch/index.php?formlist
London School of Geometry and Number Theory 6th January  http://www.lsgnt-cdt.ac.uk/apply/4njty6id7qjsek8i 2
Oxford january 24                        3
ICTP 29th February https://e-portal.ictp.it/applicant/loggedin/profile/education  2
Scuole Normale Superiore TBA
Sissa,Italy TBA
University of Western Ontario February 1 https://grad.uwo.ca/admissions/apply.html 3
Cambridge 
ist austria jan 12 3



    Your name listed at the top of your document
    Next, the names of the two referees who will provide a reference for you. You will also provide this information below in the references section
    Your CV
    A list of topics you have studied in the past two years
    A description of any project work undertaken
    A personal statement of no more than two sides of A4, providing information about your mathematical development and interests. E.g. outline what you like about a particular topic or theorem and why it has caught your imagination

    
    
FSMP,Paris(for the M2 Program)                            January 24
University of Western Ontario                                 February 1
University of Bonn                                                   April 30
ETH Zurich                                                              March 15
University of Oxford                                                January 24
IST Austria                                                              January 12
London School of Geometry and Number Theory                                 January 6
ICTP                                                                           February 29





It is not knowledge, but the act of learning, not possession but the act of getting there, which grants the greatest enjoyment. When I have clarified and exhausted a subject, then I turn away from it, in order to go into darkness again. The never-satisfied man is so strange; if he has completed a structure, then it is not in order to dwell in it peacefully, but in order to begin another. I imagine the world conqueror must feel thus, who, after one kingdom is scarcely conquered, stretches out his arms for others.





name
2 references
CV
a list of topics
project work
particular topic or theorem - catch your imagination



Dear Sir,
I am a M.Sc second year student in CMI. I had attended the talks on Floer homology that you  gave in CMI and discussed conley index 
highlighted the essential elements of the theory that influenced me to read Milnors h-cobordism theorem and  . I would really like to work with you






Graduate analysis 1 : sigma algebra, measure , M.C.T.,D.C.T.,
Graduate analysis 2 :
Graduate algebra 1 :
Graduate algebra 2 :
Grad top 1 :
Grad top 2 :
Floer theory :
Complex Geometry :
Graduate complex analysis :
PDE  :
Hyperbolic Geometry :
 



 A real human is somebody who feels and who expresses his or her feelings. This may sound easy. It isn't.

A lot of people think or believe or know what they feel---but that's thinking or believing or knowing: not feeling. And being real is feeling---not just knowing or believing or thinking.

Almost anybody can learn to think or believe or know, but it's very difficult to learn to feel. Why? Because whenever you think or you believe or you know, you're a lot of other people: but the moment you feel, you're nobody - but - yourself.

To be nobody - but -yourself-- in a world which is doing its best, night and day, to make you everybody else--means to fight the hardest battle which any human being can fight; and never stop fighting.

As for communicating nobody-but-yourself to others, that means working just a little harder than anybody who isn't real can possibly imagine. Why?

Because nothing is quite as easy as just being just like somebody else. We all of us do exactly this nearly all of the time--and whenever we do it, we are not real.

If, at the end of your first ten or fifteen years of fighting and working and feeling, you find you've loved just once with a nobody-but-yourself heart, you''ll be very lucky indeed.

And so my advice to all young people who wish to become real is: do something easy, like dreaming of freedom--unless you're ready to commit yourself to feel and work and fight till you die.
 
 
 Must not people learn Art, just as people learn electricity or plumbing or anything else, for that matter? Of course, Art is different from electricity and plumbing, in that anybody can become an electrician or a plumber, whereas only people with temperament may become Artists. Nevertheless, there are some things which even people with temperament must know before they become Artists and these are the secrets which are revealed at Art school (how to paint a landscape correctly, how to make a face look like someone, what colors to mix with other colors, which way to sharpen pencils, etc.). Only when a person with temperament has thoroughly mastered all this invaluable information can he begin to create his own hook. If you and I didn’t absorb these fundamentals, reader, we could never become Artists, no matter how temperamental we were.
 If you and I didn’t have temperament, we should now become ordinary humdrum academicians. But, being temperamental, we scorn all forms of academic guidance and throw ourselves on the world, eager to suffer — eager to become, through agony, Artists with capital A.
     Our next problem is to find the necessary agony. Where is it, gentle reader?

    Your answer: the agony lies in the fact that we stand no chance of being appreciated… Not only is there a complete absence of taste anent the domestic product, but once an Artist is found guilty of being a native of the richest country on earth he must choose between spiritual prostitution and physical starvation. What monstrous injustice!
    Let me show you a painting which cost the purchaser a mere trifle and which is the work (or better, play) of some illiterate peasant who never dreamed of value and perspective. How would you category this bit of anonymity? Is it beautiful? You do not hesitate: yes. Is it Art? You reply: it is primitive, instinctive, or uncivilized Art. Being “uncivilized,” the Art of this nameless painter is immeasurably inferior to the civilized Art of painters like ourselves, is it not? You object: primitive Art cannot be judged by the same standards as civilized Art. But tell me, how can you, having graduated from an Art school, feel anything but scorn for such a childish daub? Once more you object: this primitive design has an intrinsic rhythm, a life of its own, it is therefore Art.
    It is Art because it is alive. It proves that, if you and I are to create at all, we must create with today and let all the Art schools and Medicis in the universe go hang themselves with yesterday’s rope. It teaches us that we have made a profound error in trying to learn Art, since whatever Art stands for is whatever cannot be learned. Indeed, the Artist is no other than he who unlearns what he has learned, in order to know himself; and the agony of the Artist, far from being the result of the world’s failure to discover and appreciate him, arises from his own personal struggle to discover, to appreciate and finally to express himself.
    Look into yourself, reader, for you must find Art there, if at all… Art is not something which may or may not be acquired, it is something which you are not or which you are. If a thorough search of yourself fails to reveal the presence of this something, you may be perfectly sure that no amount of striving, academic or otherwise, can bring it into your life. But if you are this something — then, gentle reader, no amount of discrimination and misapprehension can possibly prevent you from becoming an Artist. To be sure, you will not encounter “success,” but you will experience what is a thousand times sweeter than “success.” You will know that when all’s said and done (and the very biggest Butter Baron has bought the very last and least Velasquez) “to become an Artist” means nothing: whereas to become alive, or one’s self, means everything.
    
    
    I am deeply honored to be speaking to all of you today.

I have given countless lectures and speeches in my lifetime but never a commencement speech. It is one of the hardest things I’ve ever had to write, so I speak to you today with great humility and as an expert in absolutely nothing.

I prepared this speech with the only guiding factor being that I would be really honest, and that I would not use the word “journey” even once. And that I would avoid any condescending saccharine descriptions of the wonderful future that all of you have ahead of you, out of respect for your sophistication, but also out of an acknowledgement for the fact that life is too exquisitely messy and complex and layered to be reduced to a series of commencement metaphors. So, no paths, roads, journeys, adventures, world oysters, or seizing of anything will be mentioned today.

Instead, I would like to talk to you about amnesia and broken pottery and how forms have both an inside and an outside.

Twenty-one years ago I was sitting where all of you are now and I have to honestly say that I remember very little of it. Parents, my apologies for being so sincere, but you all know exactly what I mean. There are certain moments from those years that I remember lucidly and that have contributed significantly to my foundation and my development as both a person and an artist. Remembering is a funny thing because you never remember the whole of it but rather that burning significant disjointed detail that becomes ingrained in you, a phrase or an expression or a peripheral image or the way someone made you feel. For the most part these small events will seem insignificant in the moment and yet will be loaded as a subjective personal narrative that wakes something up in you, that causes a reaction that only you can identity with. Indeed life experiences are like that—entirely non transferrable. And it is precisely those oddly shaped personal experiences that are the cathartic ones that will stay with you.

Here are some of the things I do remember from graduate school. When I came up for my big midterm review, I had made a collection of chunky wooden sculptures, a lot of them, I think to prove that I could make things. I painted them with a can of something that I had found at the government surplus store, a color that I’d safely describe as “rust” or “curry”, reminiscent of the color of the buildings in Siena, but chosen for no other reason than because it was available in industrial quantities at the government surplus on that particular trip. The entire faculty listened patiently as I gave the obligatory oral presentation. And then there was a long silence, until one of my professors, Joe Seipel, now Dean Seipel (who in those days wore jeans with a little pocketknife attached to the belt) solemnly and very respectfully announced that it all looked like something that I had bought at Crate and Barrel. It was devastating. I died a little that day, but he was so very right… And my agony made me react wholeheartedly and passionately because right there and then I decided with great conviction that there was no way I was going to be the Crate and Barrel artist. To this day I will be working on something in the studio and a tiny little Joe voice will pop up into my mind and cheerfully say “hey that looks like such and such”. And it makes me make better art. Not because of Joe, but because his words sparked an emotional response in me that is at the core of how I make decisions for myself in the studio. It pushed me to recognize how to desperately transform something into a unique gesture that assertively resists being read as generic.

I also remember being perpetually in awe of almost everything Elizabeth King said; she was my only female professor, and the toughest one to impress. I am forever grateful to have learned from how relentlessly demanding she was of her work. Oftentimes, but not at the same time as Joe’s, her high-pitched voice will also pop up when I’m in my studio… and I still have to run to the dictionary sometimes. Thanks to Liz I learned the fine art of curiosity, as well as how to use the words flummoxed, homunculus, vivisect and rhinocone. If you have been her student you know I’m not making any of this up. I also distinctly remember Liz once whispering to me, as if it were a secret, that “the specific is infinitely more difficult to name than the general” and I use this simple truism constantly as a way of gauging where I’m at, and I know I make much better art when I demand that specificity from myself. I remember what I was eating the afternoon she mentioned I needed to read Bachelard’s Poetics of Space, a book that to this day, forms part of how I see the world and was a kind of cornerstone to my creative practice. I remember reading Thomas Mann’s The Magic Mountain in a graduate seminar with the revealing line “there are many different kinds of stupidity and cleverness is one of the worst kind”. Those fifteen words still ring loudly for me. I remember the singular, eerie thrill of being alone in my VCU studio once, at 3AM and realizing that I had broken through an idea, an elusive, haunting feeling that I have spent the rest my life pursuing, and which I have experienced only a handful of times.

And it’s not just that I only remember the small details from the college years. The amnesia kept happening.

Eight years ago when I got a call from the MacArthur Foundation telling me I’d won, I was watching my toddler son while nursing my newborn daughter. And the only thing I can remember from that morning was the theme song from Scooby-Doo that was playing in the background. To this day whenever I hear it I fully expect it to herald good news.

I’m telling you all of this so that you are not surprised if you start forgetting things after graduation, so that you’re not shocked when you don’t necessarily know where to start. Because for some inexplicable reason, we seem to believe most strongly not in the actual formal lessons, but rather in those details that get into our heads without our knowing exactly how they got there. Those pivotal lessons in our lives continue to work on us in subtle, subterranean ways.

This kind of amnesia is life’s built in way of making sure you filter out what’s not very important. You graduate today after years of hard work, immersive years of learning, absorbing, processing, accumulating, cramming, finishing, focusing. There are no more reasons, really, to even make art unless you really truly want to. Of all you learned you probably don’t need to remember most of the technical or theoretical information, as that’s all easily accessible with a quick search. And what you will remember will have less to do with the past and more to do with how it triggers reactions for you in the present. Oddly enough what we involuntarily do retain is meant to help us move forward. This forthcoming amnesia that awaits you is just another kind of graduation, another step in a lifetime of many graduations.

You are about to enter the much more difficult phase of unlearning everything you have learned in college, of questioning it, redefining it, challenging it, and reinventing it to call it your own. More than in any other vocation, being an artist means always starting from nothing. Our work as artists is courageous and scary. There is no brief that comes along with it, no problem solving that’s given as a task. What matters now is not the response or the answer you offer in a class setting, but rather the unique shape you each give to your questions. An artist’s work is almost entirely inquiry based and self-regulated. It is a fragile process of teaching oneself to work alone, and focusing on how to hone your quirky creative obsessions so that they eventually become so oddly specific that they can only be your own.

The other day I was walking through the Metropolitan Museum of Art and I was fascinated by an ancient Greek ostracon from 487 BC. An ostracon is piece of broken pottery or stone, which was used to write short notes or messages on. This one in particular caught my eye because it was covered entirely with a speech that was written in tiny ancient Greek letters. Ostracons were also the way ancient Greek citizens would vote, you’d simply choose a broken piece of irregular pottery scrap, write the name of your candidate of choice on it and literally cast your vote by throwing it in the heap to be counted. You could also vote for whomever you wanted to get rid of, which is where we get the word ostracize…

I kept looking at the small irregular shard and was taken by how specific it was, how one’s first decision would surely be choosing a particularly shaped shard, followed by the decision of your choice written on its surface. I was enamored with the idea of how what seemed broken, discarded, useless was transformed into a meaningful gesture. How a generic piece of discarded pottery would essentially build up a cacophony of personal expressions, but only in its brokenness, in its sense of having that specific shape because it diverted from the original, whole structure. Of how like a found object, one’s will upon is what would create meaning.

We are conditioned to think that what is broken is lost, or useless or a setback, and so when we set out with big ambitions we don’t necessarily recognize what the next graduation is supposed to look like. Unlearning everything you learned in college is just an exercise in learning to recognize how the fragments and small bits lead to something that is much more than the sum of its parts.

In Japan there is a kind of reverence for the art of mending. In the context of the tea ceremony there is no such thing as failure or success in the way we are accustomed to using those words. A broken bowl would be valued precisely because of the exquisite nature of how it was repaired, a distinctly Japanese tradition of kintsugi, meaning to “to patch with gold”. Often, we try to repair broken things in such a way as to conceal the repair and make it “good as new.” But the tea masters understood that by repairing the broken bowl with the distinct beauty of radiant gold, they could create an alternative to “good as new” and instead employ a “better than new” aesthetic. They understood that a conspicuous, artful repair actually adds value. Because after mending, the bowl’s unique fault lines were transformed into little rivers of gold that post repair were even more special because the bowl could then resemble nothing but itself. Here lies that radical physical transformation from useless to priceless, from failure to success. All of the fumbling and awkward moments you will go through, all of the failed attempts, all of the near misses, all of the spontaneous curiosity will eventually start to steer you in exactly the right direction.

In those moments when you feel discouraged or lost in the studio, or when you experience rejection, rest completely assured that what you don’t know about something is also a form of knowledge, though much harder to understand. In many ways, making art is like blindly trying to see the shape of what you don’t yet know. Whenever you catch a little a glimpse of that blind spot, of your ignorance, of your vulnerability, of that unknown, don’t be afraid or embarrassed to stare at it. Instead, try to relish in its profound mystery. Art is about taking the risk of engaging in something somewhat ridiculous and irrational simply because you need to get a closer look at it, you simply need to break it open to see what’s inside. I’ve always loved that line in Leonard Cohen’s song that says, “Forget your perfect offering. There is a crack in everything. That’s how the light gets in.”

We live in a meritocratic society, where accomplishments are constantly being measured externally, where forms are always read from the outside, where comfort and lifestyle are often mistaken for success, or even happiness. Don’t be fooled. Our ideas regarding success should be our own, and I urge you to pursue it simultaneously from both the inside and the outside. I agree completely with Georgia O’Keefe, who thought that “whether you succeed or not is irrelevant, there is no such thing. Making your unknown known is the important thing.”

As artists, it will be especially difficult to measure these ideas of what success may be because you have chosen a practice that is entirely dependent on being willing to possibly fail, over and over again regardless of any successes that do come your way.

Success is just another form, with both an inside and outside.

For the most part people are aware of what the outside of success looks like. This is often measured by how long your resume is, where you’ve shown your work, what gallery represents you, what kind of review your show got, how much someone pays for your work, and even what university you graduated from.

Outside success always seems to look terribly glamorous, and every once in a while it can be… But it still never means all that much, and it still never makes the work of the work any easier, if anything it makes it a little harder because the stakes get higher, the possible humble failures become less private and more visible and more cruelly judged.

The day after a successful opening or the completion of a body of work is something I have always likened to a hangover. There is a need to have a big greasy breakfast and get all of people’s celebratory compliments out of your bloodstream. A kind of panic sets in the very next day, an urge to get into the studio because you know you have to start all over again, building something from nothing, seeking the company of those trusted beneficial failures, waiting for those absurd internal dialogues with your own gang of voices. It’s not a very glamorous scenario. But this is precisely what internal success looks like. It is visible only to yourself and while you can trick the rest of the world into thinking you are a good artist, you can never really convince yourself, which is why you keep trying. If you’re lucky and motivated enough to keep making art, life is quiet, you get to work at what you love doing, happily chipping away at something, constructing something, adjusting to a cycle of highs and lows and in betweens, and it doesn’t matter if you’ve been doing it for two years or 50 years, the patterns remain exactly the same. The anxiety continues to set in, the doubts creep in, the baby steps towards mending fragments starts all over again, the cautious urge to peek between the cracks is there. When you find yourself in that place, that’s when you’ll know that the inside is driving the outside.

Both the inside and the outside aspects of success have one thing in common: they both happen only if you’re paying very close attention. Neither one happens casually. There is a kind of will, a hunger, a deep-seated ability to focus that successful people have. As Susan Sontag said, “Be clenched, be curious. Not waiting for inspiration’s shove or society’s kiss on your forehead. Pay attention. It’s all about paying attention.”

As you move away from the structures and comforts of a university setting, with built in responses and scheduled deadlines for completion of work and a captive audience of classmates and teachers indulging in your art in a controlled setting know that you will have to create an alternative support structure for yourself from now on. Those of you that are paying closest attention will do well, those of you who are listening attentively to your real needs will become sensitive and receptive to recognizing a good idea, those of you who are willing to engage in an intimate relationship with possible failure, and risk taking will go very, very far.

That hunger, that desire for success is nothing more than a fear of failure, just like when I had that decisive reaction in my graduate review. And the odd thing is that when you are actually succeeding, it tends to be quiet and comes always quite unannounced and without a lot of fanfare. You will, in fact, be the only person who ever really grasps or recognizes the internal successes. The work of the work is visible only to yourself.

The most rewarding triumphs always seems to dangle just on the either side of the potentially devastating, awkward catastrophes, the embarrassing clichés, the self conscious doubting. As though the biggest leap can only come as a relentless gamble. A self directed “you go first” attitude… a dare to oneself.

While you’ll have to figure it all out for yourselves, I also wanted to give all of you some practical information on a few things that have helped me along the way.

1. Art requires time, there’s a reason it’s called a studio practice. Contrary to popular belief moving to Bushwick, Brooklyn this summer does not make you an artist. If in order to do this you have to share a space with five roommates and wait on tables, you will probably not make much art. What worked for me was spending five years building a body of work in a city where it was cheapest for me to live, and that allowed me the precious time and space I needed after grad school.

2. Learn to write well and get into the habit of systematically applying for every grant you can find. If you don’t get it, keep applying. I lived from grant money for four years when I first graduated.

3. Nobody reads artist’s statements. Learn to tell an interesting story about your work that people can relate to on a personal level.

4. Not every project will survive. Purge regularly, destroying is intimately connected to creating. This will save you time.

5. Edit privately. As much as I believe in stumbling, I also think nobody else needs to watch you do it.

6. When people say your work is good do two things. First, don’t believe them. Second, ask them WHY? If they can convince you of why they think your work is good, accept the compliment. If they can’t convince you (and most people can’t) dismiss it as superficial and recognize that most bad consensus is made by people simply repeating that they “like” something.

7. Don’t ever feel like you have to give anything up in order to be an artist… I had babies and made art and traveled and still have a million things I’d like to do.

8. You don’t need a lot of friends or curators or patrons or a huge following, just a few that really believe in you.

9. Remind yourself to be gracious to everyone, whether they can help you or not. It will draw people to you over and over again and help build trust in professional relationships.

10. And lastly, when other things in life get tough, when you’re going through family troubles, when you’re heartbroken, when you’re frustrated with money problems, focus on your work. It has saved me through every single difficult thing I have ever had to do, like a scaffolding that goes far beyond any traditional notions of a career.

I would like to leave you with a quote from my dear friend Félix González-Torres, who was an extraordinary and generous artist.

“Above all else, it is about leaving a mark that I existed: I was here. I was hungry. I was defeated. I was happy. I was sad. I was in love. I was afraid. I was hopeful. I had an idea and I had a good purpose and that’s why I made works of art.”

If there is a single thing that you remember from what I’ve said today let it be that being an artist is not just about what happens when you are in the studio. The way you live, the people you choose to love and the way you love them, the way you vote, the words that come out of your mouth, the size of the world you make for yourselves, your ability to influence the things you believe in, your obsessions, your failures, ALL of these components will also become the raw material for the art you make.

Graduates, I wish you all conviction, patience, and a sense of joy in your work. May you each come up with your own “good purpose”, and may it drive you to leave indelible marks.
 
 Diary Entry 1(March 7) :
A Journey into nothingness this is

C C# D D# E F F# G G# A A# B

Major
happy+simple
1-4-3
C-E-G
Minor(m)
sad+serious
1-3-4
C-Eb-G
Diminished(dim)
tense+unplesant
1-3-3
C-Eb-Gb
Major7(7)
thoughtful+soft
1-4-3-4
C-E-G-B
Minor7(m7)
moody+contemplative
1-3-4-3
C-Eb-G-Bb
Dominant 7
strong+restless
1-4-3-3
C-E-G-Bb
sus2, sus4(suspended)
bright+nervous
1-2-5, 1-5-2
C-D-G, C-F-G
Aug(augmented)
anxious+suspenseful
1-4-4
C-E-G#

yesterday

D C C
E F G A B C B A A

A A G F E D F E E
D C E D G C E E

E E A B C B A B
A G A E

E E A B C B A B
A G B C G F E 





let it be
G         G     G     G-A
When I find myself

E       G     G  ^C-^D
In times of trouble

^E-^E   ^E-^D   ^D  ^C  ^C
Mother Mary comes to me

^E - ^E         ^F   ^E   ^E-^D
Speaking words of wisdom

^E ^D ^D-^C
Let it be...

 

G      G   G       A   ^C    A - G
And in my hour of darkness

^C  ^D  ^E-^E
She is standing

^E   ^D   ^D  ^C ^C
Right in front of me

^E - ^E      ^F     ^E    ^E-^D
Speaking words of wisdom

^E ^D ^D-^C
Let it be...

 

^E ^D ^C
Let it be,

^E ^G ^A
Let it be,

^G ^E ^C
Let it be,

A  G ^E
Let it be

^E - ^E        ^F   ^E    ^E-^D
Whisper words of wisdom

^E ^D ^D-^C
Let  it  be...



CCCC                    CB
Something in the way she moves
BBB               
attracts me like 


Youtube Channels
NerdWriter 1
Lessons From the Screenplay
Manufacturing intellect
Like Stories of the old
Cinema Cartography
Every Frame a Painting
Proko
Art Assignment
The Garo Studios
Pursuing Wonder
3 Blue 1 Brown
Cinema entertainment
kubriklynch
essential films

Books Mentioned in the Video:
What is Cinema by Andre Bazin - https://amzn.to/2ks3UlS
I Lost It at The Movies by Pauline Kael - https://amzn.to/2IU7AY4
The Great Movies by Roger Ebert - https://amzn.to/2Lvfw3Q
Hitchcock/Truffaut by Francois Truffaut -  https://amzn.to/2IOkxXI
Hatchet Job by Mark Kermode - https://amzn.to/2IU8e7W
Against Interpretation by Susan Sontag - https://amzn.to/2KX8XG8

Film Critics I Follow/Still Read: [in alphabetical order]
Ann Hornaday
AO Scott
Baradwaj Rangan
Mallory Andrews
Mark Kermode
Matt Zoller Seitz
Nigel Flyod
Pauline Kael (Inactive due to death)
Rahul Desai
Richard Brody
Roger Ebert (Inactive due to death)

Art Critics:
John Berger
Roberta Smith
Susan Sontag








alfanso cuaron
ozu
michael bay
jj abrams
speilberg
kirosawa
tarkovsky
fincher
tarsem singh
busby berkely
paul greengrass
terrence malik
jean pierre jeunet
Sergio leuney
gaspar noe
bergman
nolan
scorsese
sam peckinpah
godard
jack snyder
tony scott
john woo
guy ritchie
edgar wright
terry william
cronenberg
yimou zhang
roy anderson
tim burton
terry gilliam
dario argel
jodorowsky
baz luhrman
robert altman
chaplin
jacques tatti
robert bresson
judo a patow
mike leigh
martin mcdonagh
yorgos lanthimos
godard 
bunuel 
kubrick
tarantino
antonioni
François Truffaut(400 blows)
Abel Gance
Jean Renoir.
alan resnais
jacque demou(unbrellas of cherbourg)
wife (cleo from 5 to 7)
bernardo bertolucci
bela tarr
fellini
eisenstein
the wrath of god(hartzog)
dogville, antichrist()
kieslowski(three color trilogy)
satyajit ray
the chuunking express
cook thief and her lover


bruce conner
maya deren
germaine dulac
man ray
marie menken
kenneth anger
hollis frampton
godfrey reggio(koyannisqui)
ron fricke
bunuel and dali(un chuen)
marcel duchamp
rene clair
dudley murphy
stan brakhage


andy warhol


I read books to read myself,” Sven Birkerts wrote in The Gutenberg Elegies: The Fate of Reading in an Electronic Age. Birkerts’s book, which turns twenty-five this year, is composed of fifteen essays on reading, the self, the convergence of the two, and the ways both are threatened by the encroachment of modern technology. As the culture around him underwent the sea change of the internet’s arrival, Birkerts feared that qualities long safeguarded and elevated by print were in danger of erosion: among them privacy, the valuation of individual consciousness, and an awareness of history—not merely the facts of it, but a sense of its continuity, of our place among the centuries and cosmos. “Literature holds meaning not as a content that can be abstracted and summarized, but as experience,” he wrote. “It is a participatory arena. Through the process of reading we slip out of our customary time orientation, marked by distractedness and surficiality, into the realm of duration.”

Writing in 1994, Birkerts worried that distractedness and surficiality would win out. The “duration state” we enter through a turned page would be lost in a world of increasing speed and relentless connectivity, and with it our ability to make meaning out of narratives, both fictional and lived. The diminishment of literature—of sustained reading, of writing as the product of a single focused mind—would diminish the self in turn, rendering us less and less able to grasp both the breadth of our world and the depth of our own consciousness. For Birkerts, as for many a reader, the thought of such a loss devastates. So while he could imagine this bleak near-future, he (mostly) resisted the masochistic urge to envision it too concretely, focusing instead on the present, in which—for a little while longer, at least—he reads, and he writes. His collection, despite its title, resembles less an elegy for literature than an attempt to stave off its death: by writing eloquently about his own reading life and electronic resistance, Birkerts reminds us that such a life is worthwhile, desirable, and, most importantly, still possible. In the face of what we stand to lose, he privileges what we might yet gain.

A quarter of a century later, did he—did we—manage to salvage the wreck? Or have Birkerts’s worst fears come to pass? It’s hard to tell from the numbers. More independent bookstores are opening than closing, and sales of print books are up—but authors’ earnings are down. Fewer Americans read for pleasure than they once did. A major house’s editor-driven imprint was shuttered recently, while the serialized storytelling app Wattpad announced its intention to publish books chosen by algorithms, foregoing the need for editors altogether. Some of the changes Birkerts saw on the horizon—the invention of e-books, for one, and the possibilities of hypertext—have turned out to be less consequential than anticipated, but others have proven dire; the easy, addictive distractions of the screen swallow our hours whole.

And perhaps the greatest danger posed to literature is not any newfangled technology or whiz-bang rearrangement of our synapses, but plain old human greed in its latest, greatest iteration: an online retailer incorporated in the same year The Gutenberg Elegies was published. In the last twenty-five years, Amazon has gorged on late capitalism’s values of ease and cheapness, threatening to monopolize not only the book world, but the world-world. In the face of such an insidious, omnivorous menace—not merely the tech giant, but the culture that created and sustains it—I find it difficult to disentangle my own fear about the future of books from my fear about the futures of small-town economies, of American democracy, of the earth and its rising seas.

“Ten, fifteen years from now the world will be nothing like what we remember, nothing much like what we experience now,” Birkerts wrote. “We will be swimming in impulses and data—the microchip will make us offers that will be very hard to refuse.” Indeed, few of us have refused them. As each new technology, from smartphones to voice-activated home assistants, becomes normalized faster and faster, our ability to refuse it lessens. The choice presented in The Gutenberg Elegies, between embrace and skepticism, hardly seems like a choice anymore: the new generation is born swaddled in the digital world’s many arms.

I am both part and not part of this new generation. I was born in 1988, two years before the development of HTML. I didn’t have a computer at home until middle school, didn’t have a cell phone until I was eighteen. I remember the pained beeping of a dial-up connection, if only faintly. Facebook launched as I finished up high school, and Twitter as I entered college. The golden hours of my childhood aligned perfectly with the fading light of a pre-internet world; I know intimately that such a world existed, and had its advantages.

Birkerts, recalling the power books held over him when he was young, writes, “Through reading and living I have gradually made myself proof against total ravishment by authors. Yet so vivid are my recollections of that urgency, that sense of consequence, that I foolishly keep looking for it to happen again.” The heightened state brought on by a book—in which one is “actively present at every moment, scripting and constructing”—is what readers seek, Birkerts argues: “They want plot and character, sure, but what they really want is a vehicle that will bear them off to the reading state.” This state is threatened by the ever-sprawling internet—can the book’s promise of deeper presence entice us away from the instant gratification of likes and shares?

“[Y]ears of working in bookstores have convinced me that this fundamental condition is there for others as well,” Birkerts writes; as a young man, he worked for a then-independent Ann Arbor bookshop called Borders. Four decades later, I slung books at Literati Bookstore, a few blocks away. The shelves of the original Borders had been bought and repurposed by Literati’s owners to hold the new store’s fiction section, and the people browsing them were the same, too: that is, they had the same tilt to their heads as they scanned titles, the same hopeful reach in their fingers as they pulled a volume down, flipping through the first few pages.

And if they occasionally wanted books modeled after the internet—gift books born on Tumblr, Instagram printed out and bound—they also wanted Maggie Nelson’s Bluets. They wanted Teju Cole’s Open City, Anthony Marra’s The Tsar of Love and Techno, Claudia Rankine’s Don’t Let Me Be Lonely. Loneliness is what the internet and social media claim to alleviate, though they often have the opposite effect. Communion can be hard to find, not because we aren’t occupying the same physical space but because we aren’t occupying the same mental plane: we don’t read the same news; we don’t even revel in the same memes. Our phones and computers deliver unto each of us a personalized—or rather, algorithm-realized—distillation of headlines, anecdotes, jokes, and photographs. Even the ads we scroll past are not the same as our neighbor’s: a pair of boots has followed me from site to site for weeks. We call this endless, immaterial material a feed, though there’s little sustenance to be found.

Birkerts’s argument (and mine) isn’t that books alleviate loneliness, either: to claim a goal shared by every last app and website is to lose the fight for literature before it starts. No, the power of art—and many books are, still, art, not entertainment—lies in the way it turns us inward and outward, all at once. The communion we seek, scanning titles or turning pages, is not with others—not even the others, living or long dead, who wrote the words we read—but with ourselves. Our finest capacities, too easily forgotten.

Early in The Gutenberg Elegies, Birkerts summarizes historian Rolf Engelsing’s definition of reading “intensively” as the common practice of most readers before the nineteenth century, when books, which were scarce and expensive, were often read aloud and many times over. As reading materials—not just books, but newspapers, magazines, and ephemera—proliferated, more recent centuries saw the rise of reading “extensively”: we read these materials once, often quickly, and move on. Birkerts coins his own terms: the deep, devotional practice of “vertical” reading has been supplanted by “horizontal” reading, skimming along the surface. This shift has only accelerated dizzyingly in the time since Engelsing wrote in 1974, since Birkerts wrote in 1994, and since I wrote, yesterday, the paragraph above.

Horizontal reading rules the day. What I do when I look at Twitter is less akin to reading a book than to the encounter I have with a recipe’s instructions or the fine print of a receipt: I’m taking in information, not enlightenment. It’s a way to pass the time, not to live in it. Reading—real reading, the kind Birkerts makes his impassioned case for—draws on our vertical sensibility, however latent, and “where it does not assume depth, it creates it.”

I no longer have a Facebook account, and I find myself spending less and less time online. As adulthood settles on me—no passing fad, it turns out, but a chronic condition—I’m increasingly drawn back to the deeply engaged reading of my childhood. The books have changed, and my absorption is not always as total as it once was, but I can still find, slipped like a note between the pages, what Birkerts calls the “time of the self… deep time, duration time, time that is essentially characterized by our obliviousness to it.” The gift of reading, the gift of any encounter with art, is that this time spent doesn’t leave me when I lift my eyes from the book in my lap: it lingers, for a minute or a day. “[S]omething more than definitional slackness allows me to tell a friend that I’m reading The Good Soldier as we walk down the street together,” Birkerts writes. “In some ways I am reading the novel as I walk, or nap, or drive to the store for milk.”

Unfortunately, this thrumming-under quality is also true of our horizontal reading. If I’ve spent too long before the pixelated page, that experience, too, clings to the hours that follow. The screen appears before my closed eyes; my thoughts vibrate at the frequency of content, of discourse: pithy, argumentative, living in anticipation of retort. I debate imagined trolls in the shower. “When a work compels immersion, if often also has the power to haunt from a distance,” Birkerts says, and how I wish this haunting were the sole province of great work. It isn’t: ghosts seep through the words on the screen, ghosts of screeds and inanities, of hate and idiocy, of so much—so much!—bad writing.

“But perhaps when the need is strong enough we will seek out the word on the page, and the work that puts us back into the force field of deep time,” says Birkerts. “The book—and my optimism, you may sense, is not unwavering—will be seen as a haven, as a way of going off-line and into a space sanctified by subjectivity.” Oddly enough, here in the dawning days of 2019, my own optimism is strong. It seems clear to me that the need is strong enough—is as strong as it always has been and always will be—for the blossoming, bodily pleasure of reading something remarkable, the way it takes the top of my head off and shows me—palms open, an offering—what’s been churning away in there, all along.

“Resonance—there is no wisdom without it,” Birkerts writes. “Resonance is a natural phenomenon, the shadow of import alongside the body of fact, and it cannot flourish except in deep time.” But time feels especially shallow these days, as the wave of one horror barely crests before it’s devoured by the next, as every morning’s shocking headline is old news by the afternoon. Weeks go by, and we might see friends only through the funhouse mirrors of Snapchat and Instagram and their so-called stories, designed to disappear. Not even the pretense of permanence remains: we refresh and refresh every tab, and are not sated. What are we waiting for? What are we hoping to find?

We know perfectly well—we remember, even if dimly, the inward state that satisfies more than our itching, clicking fingers—and we know it isn’t here. Here, on the internet, is a nowhere space, a shallow time. It is a flat and impenetrable surface. But with a book, we dive in; we are sucked in; we are immersed, body and soul. “We hold in our hands a way to cut against the momentum of the times,” Birkerts assures. “We can resist the skimming tendency and delve; we can restore, if only for a time, the vanishing assumption of coherence. The beauty of the vertical engagement is that it does not have to argue for itself. It is self-contained, a fulfillment.”







Some book reccomendations

    Where’d You Go, Bernadette by Maria Semple
    This book was recommended to me by a reader. It’s not something I would stumble upon myself. But I’m glad I read this book. Where’d You Go, Bernadette is an entertaining and creative novel about weirdoes in Seattle. Maria Semple wrote for Arrested Development (one of my favorite tv shows). And that’s something you can tell by her style. ‘Dudes’ probably call this chick lit. But grow up man, and read this shit.
    Naïve. Super by Erlend Loe
    Another funny and entertaining book. Loe is from Norway, and I like his minimal style. It’s a story about a young kid who’s searching for meaning in life. Way better than all the corny self-help parables like The Alchemist. This is book down to earth and fun to read.
    Crime and Punishment by Fyodor Dostoyevsky
    Let’s get a little serious. This book is an examination of human suffering. If this book doesn’t change the way you think about people, nothing will. And if you think it’s a lengthy and hard to read novel, you’re wrong. It’s actually a very light read. Just don’t get stuck on all the characters and continue reading. It will make sense along the way.
    Fight Club by Chuck Palahniuk
    The only very familiar book on this list. I’ve referred to this book more often and I still enjoy it after all these years. It never gets old. And if you’ve never read it, drop whatever you’re doing and get this book. You’ll change after reading it.
    Ask The Dust by John Fante
    My favorite writer, Charles Bukowski, was influenced by Fante. In Ask The Dust, you read the story of Arturo Bandini, a struggling writer in 1930s Los Angeles. It’s a story about struggle and perseverance. It’s both depressing and feel-good at the same time. Just like life.
    Death With Interruptions by Jose Saramago
    We all die, right? But what if that wasn’t the case? A lot of people are afraid of death, but in this novel, people don’t have to be afraid anymore. Because on the first day of the new year, no one dies. Death basically gives up her job (yes, death is a her in this book). What happens next? Read the book. It’s really good.
    Cathedral by Raymond Carver
    Because Raymond Carver wrote short stories, he’s never included in any ‘top novels’ lists. And that’s a shame. Most people have heard about his classic What We Talk About When We Talk About Love. But Cathedral makes you think more. My favorite Carver collection because it’s about exploring everyday moments in human life. 





Casual advanced math books



    Michio Kuga, Galois' dream,

    David Mumford, Caroline Series, David Wright, Indra's Pearls,

    Hermann Weyl, Symmetry.

    Marcel Berger, Geometry revealed,

    D. Hilbert and Cohn-Vossen, Geometry and imagination,

    T. W. Korner, Fourier Analysis,

    T. W. Korner, The pleasures of counting.

    A. A. Kirillov, What are numbers?

    V. Arnold, Huygens and Barrow, Newton and Hooke.

    Mark Levi, Classical mechanics with Calculus of variations and optimal control.

    Shlomo Sternberg, Group theory and physics,

    Shlomo Sternberg, Celestial mechanics.

    A Singular Mathematical Promenade by E. Ghys.
    
     What's Happening in the Mathematical Sciences Series
     
     

I think that the "Number Theory" series by Kato, Kurokawa, Kurihara and Saito fits here. They are beautifully written and require only some undergradute algebra and analysis. They were published (translated) in the AMS Translations of Mathematical Monographs:

Number theory. 1. Fermat's dream

Number theory. 2. Introduction to class field theory

Number theory. 3. Iwasawa theory and modular forms

azi-ijwa3-b7







